docs: 3.6+ improve structure and look of our hook doc (#20553)
juju/juju: docs/reference/hook.md

are notified that a hook event has occurred, how errors are reported, and how a user might respond to
a unit being in an error state due to a failed hook execution etc.

> Some hooks can also be grouped according to the Juju subsystem they represent (leadership, relations, secrets, storage, series, workload/Pebble).

Author: Fixed, thanks!

Some hooks can also be grouped according to the Juju subsystem they represent (leadership, relations, secrets, storage, series, workload/Pebble).

* relation: used to inform a charm about changes to related applications and units
* secret: used to inform a charm about changes to secrets it either owns or has consumed
* storage: used to inform a charm about changes to storage attached to its unit
* upgrade series: used to coordinate upgrade of host OS (3.6 or earlier only)

> * workload: used to inform the charm about events related to a Pebble managed workload (currently Kubernetes only)

Author: In a sense the question is: Should we drop the entire section and just fold this into the intro? We might end up doing precisely that but I'm not ready for that step yet. For now, the simple informal, non-jargon listing and the link down is maybe OK.

Generally, no assumptions can be made about the order of hook execution. However, there are some limited guarantees
about hook sequencing during install, upgrade, and relation removal.

In normal operation, a unit will run at least the {ref}`hook-install`, {ref}`hook-start`, {ref}`hook-config-changed` and {ref}`hook-stop` hooks over the course of its lifetime.

(installation-phase)=
### Installation phase

When a charm is first deployed, the following hooks are executed in order before a charm reaches its operation phase:

> * {ref}`hook-storage-attached` (for machine charms if the unit has storage)

Author: Will render as `<storage>-storage-attached`, like the title of the heading this points to.

the most trying circumstances) as well as careful to log any relevant
information or advice before signalling the error.

(list-of-hooks)=
## List of hooks
<!-- > [Source](https://github.com/juju/juju/blob/main/internal/charm/hooks/hooks.go) -->

This section gives the complete list of hooks.

Where hooks belong to a kind, we nest them under that kind; otherwise, under "other". Thus:

* {ref}`leadership-hooks`
* {ref}`relation-hooks`
* {ref}`secret-hooks`
* {ref}`storage-hooks`
* {ref}`upgrade-series-hooks`
* {ref}`workload-hooks`
* {ref}`other-hooks`

In all cases we cover
- What triggers the hook?
- Which environment variables is it executed with?
- Who gets it?

(leadership-hooks)=
### Leadership hooks

(hook-leader-deposed)=

> #### `leader-deposed`

Author: I'll delete it then.

That will cause the lease to expire within 60s, and another unit of the same application will be elected leader and receive `leader-elected`.

```

- If the leader unit is removed, then one of the remaining units will be elected as leader and see the `leader-elected` event; all the other remaining units will see `leader-settings-changed`. If the leader unit was not removed, no leadership events will be fired on any units.

> Note that unless there's only one unit left, it is impossible to predict or control which one of the remaining units will be elected as the new leader.

|   Scenario  | Example Command                          | Resulting Events                     |
| :-------: | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
|  Current leader loses leadership   | `juju remove-unit foo`  | (new leader): `leader-elected` <br> (all other foo units): `leader-settings-changed`|

<!--
*Which hooks can be guaranteed to have fired before it, if any?*?

TBA

*Which environment variables is it executed with?*

TBA
-->

*Who gets it*?

> The leader unit, once Juju elects one.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

During startup sequence, for all non-leader units:

|   Scenario   | Example Command  | Resulting Events |
| :-------: | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
|  Create unit   | `juju deploy foo -n 2`  | `install -> leader-settings-changed -> config-changed -> start` (non-leader)|

If the leader unit is rescheduled, or removed entirely. When the new leader is elected:

|  Scenario   | Example Command                          | Resulting Events                     |
| :-------: | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
|  Removal of leader   | `juju remove-unit foo/0` (foo/0 being leader)  | `leader-settings-changed` (for all non leaders) |

> Since this event needs leadership changes to trigger, check out the triggers for the {ref}`hook-leader-elected`, as the same situations apply for the {ref}`hook-leader-settings-changed` too.

<!--
*Which hooks can be guaranteed to have fired before it, if any?*?

TBA

*Which environment variables is it executed with?*

TBA
-->

*Who gets it*?

> All follower units, when a new leader is chosen.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

Both `relation-departed` and `relation-broken` will always fire, regardless of how the relation is terminated.
```

(hook-relation-broken)=
#### `<endpoint>-relation-broken`

*What triggers it?*

- a non-peer relation being removed;
- a unit participating in a non-peer relation being removed, even if the relation is otherwise still alive (through other units); or
- an application involved in a non-peer relation being removed.

This hook is fired only once per unit per relation and is the exact inverse of `relation-created`. `relation-created` indicates that relation data can be accessed; `relation-broken` indicates that relation data can no longer be read-written.

The hook indicates that the relation under consideration is no longer valid, and that the charm’s software must be configured as though the relation had never existed. It will only be called after every hook bound to `<endpoint>-relation-departed` has been run. If a hook bound to this event is being executed, it is guaranteed that no remote units are currently known locally.

> > It is important to note that the `relation-broken` hook might run even if no other units have ever joined the relation. This is not a bug: even if no remote units have ever joined, the fact of the unit’s participation can be detected in other hooks via the `relation-ids` tool, and the `-broken` hook needs to execute to allow the charm to clean up any optimistically-generated configuration.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

Any unit.

## Hook and action environment variables

### `<environment variable(s) specific to a hook (kind) or action>`

See the documentation for the relevant hook or action.

(generic-environment-variables)=
### Generic environment variables

* `PATH` is the usual Unix path, prefixed by a directory containing command line tools through which the hooks can interact with Juju.
* `JUJU_CHARM_DIR` holds the path to the charm directory.
* `JUJU_HOOK_NAME` holds the name of the currently executing hook.
* `JUJU_UNIT_NAME` holds the name of the local unit.

> * `JUJU_CONTEXT_ID`, `JUJU_AGENT_SOCKET_NETWORK` and `JUJU_AGENT_SOCKET_ADDRESS` are set (but should not be messed with: the command line tools won't work without them).

Reviewer: It is better to just explain what they are for, rather than saying "don't mess with them for reasons".
```suggestion
* `JUJU_CONTEXT_ID`, `JUJU_AGENT_SOCKET_NETWORK` and `JUJU_AGENT_SOCKET_ADDRESS` are used by the hook commands to connect to the local agent.
```

Author: Updated, thanks!

* `JUJU_API_ADDRESSES` holds a space separated list of Juju API addresses.
* `JUJU_MODEL_UUID` holds the UUID of the current model.
* `JUJU_MODEL_NAME` holds the human friendly name of the current model.
* `JUJU_PRINCIPAL_UNIT` holds the name of the principal unit if the current unit is a subordinate.
* `JUJU_MACHINE_ID` holds the ID of the machine on which the local unit is running.
* `JUJU_AVAILABILITY_ZONE` holds the cloud's availability zone where the machine has been provisioned.
* `CLOUD_API_VERSION` holds the API version of the cloud endpoint.

> * `JUJU_VERSION` holds the version of the model hosting the local unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `JUJU_VERSION` holds the version of the agent for the local unit.
```

Author: Fixed, thanks!
